stable/parse/README.md, before:

# Parse

[Parse](https://parse.com/) is an open source version of the Parse backend that can be deployed to any infrastructure that can run Node.js.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/parse
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [Parse](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.4+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/parse
```

The command deploys Parse on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Parse chart and their default values.

|             Parameter              |              Description               |                   Default                               |
|------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------- |
| `serviceType`                      | Kubernetes Service type                | `LoadBalancer`                                          |
| `loadBalancerIP`                   | `loadBalancerIP` for the Parse Service | `nil`                                                   |
| `server.image.registry`            | Parse image registry                   | `docker.io`                                             |
| `server.image.repository`          | Parse image name                       | `bitnami/parse`                                         |
| `server.image.tag`                 | Parse image tag                        | `{VERSION}`                                             |
| `server.image.pullPolicy`          | Image pull policy                      | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent` |
| `server.image.pullSecrets`         | Specify image pull secrets             | `nil`                                                   |
| `server.port`                      | Parse server server port               | `1337`                                                  |
| `server.mountPath`                 | Parse server API mount path            | `/parse`                                                |
| `server.appId`                     | Parse server App Id                    | `myappID`                                               |
| `server.masterKey`                 | Parse server Master Key                | `random 10 character alphanumeric string`               |
| `server.resources`                 | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits    | Memory: `512Mi`, CPU: `300m`                            |
| `dashboard.enabled`                | Enable parse dashboard                 | `true`                                                  |
| `dashboard.image.registry`         | Dashboard image registry               | `docker.io`                                             |
| `dashboard.image.repository`       | Dashboard image name                   | `bitnami/parse-dashboard`                               |
| `dashboard.image.tag`              | Dashboard image tag                    | `{VERSION}`                                             |
| `dashboard.image.pullPolicy`       | Image pull policy                      | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent` |
| `dashboard.image.pullSecrets`      | Specify image pull secrets             | `nil`                                                   |
| `dashboard.username`               | Dashboard username                     | `user`                                                  |
| `dashboard.password`               | Dashboard user password                | `random 10 character alphanumeric string`               |
| `dashboard.appName`                | Dashboard application name             | `MyDashboard`                                           |
| `dashboard.resources`              | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits    | Memory: `512Mi`, CPU: `300m`                            |
| `persistence.enabled`              | Enable Parse persistence using PVC     | `true`                                                  |
| `persistence.storageClass`         | PVC Storage Class for Parse volume     | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `persistence.accessMode`           | PVC Access Mode for Parse volume       | `ReadWriteOnce`                                         |
| `persistence.size`                 | PVC Storage Request for Parse volume   | `8Gi`                                                   |
| `mongodb.usePassword`              | Enable MongoDB password authentication | `true`                                                  |
| `mongodb.password`                 | MongoDB admin password                 | `nil`                                                     |
| `mongodb.persistence.enabled`      | Enable MongoDB persistence using PVC   | `true`                                                  |
| `mongodb.persistence.storageClass` | PVC Storage Class for MongoDB volume   | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `mongodb.persistence.accessMode`   | PVC Access Mode for MongoDB volume     | `ReadWriteOnce`                                         |
| `mongodb.persistence.size`         | PVC Storage Request for MongoDB volume | `8Gi`                                                   |

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [bitnami/parse](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse). For more information please refer to the [bitnami/parse](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse) image documentation.

> **Note**:
>
> For the Parse application function correctly, you should specify the `parseHost` parameter to specify the FQDN (recommended) or the public IP address of the Parse service.
>
> Optionally, you can specify the `loadBalancerIP` parameter to assign a reserved IP address to the Parse service of the chart. However please note that this feature is only available on a few cloud providers (f.e. GKE).
>
> To reserve a public IP address on GKE:
>
> ```bash
> $ gcloud compute addresses create parse-public-ip
> ```
>
> The reserved IP address can be associated to the Parse service by specifying it as the value of the `loadBalancerIP` parameter while installing the chart.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set dashboard.username=admin,dashboard.password=password \
    stable/parse
```

The above command sets the Parse administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/parse
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [Bitnami Parse](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse) image stores the Parse data and configurations at the `/bitnami/parse` path of the container.

Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments. This is known to work in GCE, AWS, and minikube.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section to configure the PVC or to disable persistence.

## Upgrading

### To 3.0.0

Backwards compatibility is not guaranteed unless you modify the labels used on the chart's deployments.
Use the workaround below to upgrade from versions previous to 3.0.0. The following example assumes that the release name is parse:

```console
$ kubectl patch deployment parse-parse-dashboard --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
$ kubectl patch deployment parse-parse-server --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
$ kubectl patch deployment parse-mongodb --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
```

Commit message:

[stable/parse] Add kubeapps text to charts READMEs (#8201)
Signed-off-by: Carlos Rodriguez Hernandez <crhernandez@bitnami.com>

stable/parse/README.md, after:

# Parse

[Parse](https://parse.com/) is an open source version of the Parse backend that can be deployed to any infrastructure that can run Node.js.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/parse
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [Parse](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

Bitnami charts can be used with [Kubeapps](https://kubeapps.com/) for deployment and management of Helm Charts in clusters.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.4+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/parse
```

The command deploys Parse on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Parse chart and their default values.

|             Parameter              |              Description               |                   Default                               |
|------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------- |
| `serviceType`                      | Kubernetes Service type                | `LoadBalancer`                                          |
| `loadBalancerIP`                   | `loadBalancerIP` for the Parse Service | `nil`                                                   |
| `server.image.registry`            | Parse image registry                   | `docker.io`                                             |
| `server.image.repository`          | Parse image name                       | `bitnami/parse`                                         |
| `server.image.tag`                 | Parse image tag                        | `{VERSION}`                                             |
| `server.image.pullPolicy`          | Image pull policy                      | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent` |
| `server.image.pullSecrets`         | Specify image pull secrets             | `nil`                                                   |
| `server.port`                      | Parse server server port               | `1337`                                                  |
| `server.mountPath`                 | Parse server API mount path            | `/parse`                                                |
| `server.appId`                     | Parse server App Id                    | `myappID`                                               |
| `server.masterKey`                 | Parse server Master Key                | `random 10 character alphanumeric string`               |
| `server.resources`                 | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits    | Memory: `512Mi`, CPU: `300m`                            |
| `dashboard.enabled`                | Enable parse dashboard                 | `true`                                                  |
| `dashboard.image.registry`         | Dashboard image registry               | `docker.io`                                             |
| `dashboard.image.repository`       | Dashboard image name                   | `bitnami/parse-dashboard`                               |
| `dashboard.image.tag`              | Dashboard image tag                    | `{VERSION}`                                             |
| `dashboard.image.pullPolicy`       | Image pull policy                      | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent` |
| `dashboard.image.pullSecrets`      | Specify image pull secrets             | `nil`                                                   |
| `dashboard.username`               | Dashboard username                     | `user`                                                  |
| `dashboard.password`               | Dashboard user password                | `random 10 character alphanumeric string`               |
| `dashboard.appName`                | Dashboard application name             | `MyDashboard`                                           |
| `dashboard.resources`              | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits    | Memory: `512Mi`, CPU: `300m`                            |
| `persistence.enabled`              | Enable Parse persistence using PVC     | `true`                                                  |
| `persistence.storageClass`         | PVC Storage Class for Parse volume     | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `persistence.accessMode`           | PVC Access Mode for Parse volume       | `ReadWriteOnce`                                         |
| `persistence.size`                 | PVC Storage Request for Parse volume   | `8Gi`                                                   |
| `mongodb.usePassword`              | Enable MongoDB password authentication | `true`                                                  |
| `mongodb.password`                 | MongoDB admin password                 | `nil`                                                     |
| `mongodb.persistence.enabled`      | Enable MongoDB persistence using PVC   | `true`                                                  |
| `mongodb.persistence.storageClass` | PVC Storage Class for MongoDB volume   | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `mongodb.persistence.accessMode`   | PVC Access Mode for MongoDB volume     | `ReadWriteOnce`                                         |
| `mongodb.persistence.size`         | PVC Storage Request for MongoDB volume | `8Gi`                                                   |

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [bitnami/parse](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse). For more information please refer to the [bitnami/parse](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse) image documentation.

> **Note**:
>
> For the Parse application function correctly, you should specify the `parseHost` parameter to specify the FQDN (recommended) or the public IP address of the Parse service.
>
> Optionally, you can specify the `loadBalancerIP` parameter to assign a reserved IP address to the Parse service of the chart. However please note that this feature is only available on a few cloud providers (f.e. GKE).
>
> To reserve a public IP address on GKE:
>
> ```bash
> $ gcloud compute addresses create parse-public-ip
> ```
>
> The reserved IP address can be associated to the Parse service by specifying it as the value of the `loadBalancerIP` parameter while installing the chart.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set dashboard.username=admin,dashboard.password=password \
    stable/parse
```

The above command sets the Parse administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/parse
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [Bitnami Parse](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-parse) image stores the Parse data and configurations at the `/bitnami/parse` path of the container.

Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments. This is known to work in GCE, AWS, and minikube.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section to configure the PVC or to disable persistence.

## Upgrading

### To 3.0.0

Backwards compatibility is not guaranteed unless you modify the labels used on the chart's deployments.
Use the workaround below to upgrade from versions previous to 3.0.0. The following example assumes that the release name is parse:

```console
$ kubectl patch deployment parse-parse-dashboard --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
$ kubectl patch deployment parse-parse-server --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
$ kubectl patch deployment parse-mongodb --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
```
