stable/magento/README.md, before:

# Magento

[Magento](https://magento.org/) is a feature-rich flexible e-commerce solution. It includes transaction options, multi-store functionality, loyalty programs, product categorization and shopper filtering, promotion rules, and more.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/magento
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [Magento](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

It also packages the [Bitnami MariaDB chart](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/mariadb) which is required for bootstrapping a MariaDB deployment as a database for the Magento application.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.4+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/magento
```

The command deploys Magento on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Magento chart and their default values.

|             Parameter              |               Description                |                         Default                          |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| `image.registry`                   | Magento image registry                   | `docker.io`                                              |
| `image.repository`                 | Magento Image name                       | `bitnami/magento`                                        |
| `image.tag`                        | Magento Image tag                        | `{VERSION}`                                              |
| `image.pullPolicy`                 | Image pull policy                        | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent`  |
| `image.pullSecrets`                | Specify image pull secrets               | `nil`                                                    |
| `magentoHost`                      | Magento host to create application URLs  | `nil`                                                    |
| `magentoLoadBalancerIP`            | `loadBalancerIP` for the magento Service | `nil`                                                    |
| `magentoUsername`                  | User of the application                  | `user`                                                   |
| `magentoPassword`                  | Application password                     | _random 10 character long alphanumeric string_           |
| `magentoEmail`                     | Admin email                              | `user@example.com`                                       |
| `magentoFirstName`                 | Magento Admin First Name                 | `FirstName`                                              |
| `magentoLastName`                  | Magento Admin Last Name                  | `LastName`                                               |
| `magentoMode`                      | Magento mode                             | `developer`                                              |
| `magentoAdminUri`                  | Magento prefix to access Magento Admin   | `admin`                                                  |
| `allowEmptyPassword`               | Allow DB blank passwords                 | `yes`                                                    |
| `externalDatabase.host`            | Host of the external database            | `nil`                                                    |
| `externalDatabase.port`            | Port of the external database            | `3306`                                                   |
| `externalDatabase.user`            | Existing username in the external db     | `bn_magento`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.password`        | Password for the above username          | `nil`                                                    |
| `externalDatabase.database`        | Name of the existing database            | `bitnami_magento`                                        |
| `mariadb.enabled`                  | Whether to use the MariaDB chart           | `true`                                                   |
| `mariadb.rootUser.password`      | MariaDB admin password                   | `nil`                                                    |
| `mariadb.db.name`          | Database name to create                  | `bitnami_magento`                                        |
| `mariadb.db.user`              | Database user to create                  | `bn_magento`                                             |
| `mariadb.db.password`          | Password for the database                | _random 10 character long alphanumeric string_           |
| `serviceType`                      | Kubernetes Service type                  | `LoadBalancer`                                           |
| `persistence.enabled`              | Enable persistence using PVC             | `true`                                                   |
| `persistence.apache.storageClass`  | PVC Storage Class for Apache volume      | `nil`  (uses alpha storage annotation)                   |
| `persistence.apache.accessMode`    | PVC Access Mode for Apache volume        | `ReadWriteOnce`                                          |
| `persistence.apache.size`          | PVC Storage Request for Apache volume    | `1Gi`                                                    |
| `persistence.magento.storageClass` | PVC Storage Class for Magento volume     | `nil`  (uses alpha storage annotation)                   |
| `persistence.magento.accessMode`   | PVC Access Mode for Magento volume       | `ReadWriteOnce`                                          |
| `persistence.magento.size`         | PVC Storage Request for Magento volume   | `8Gi`                                                    |
| `resources`                        | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits      | Memory: `512Mi`, CPU: `300m`                             |

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [bitnami/magento](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento). For more information please refer to the [bitnami/magento](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento) image documentation.

> **Note**:
>
> For Magento to function correctly, you should specify the `magentoHost` parameter to specify the FQDN (recommended) or the public IP address of the Magento service.
>
> Optionally, you can specify the `magentoLoadBalancerIP` parameter to assign a reserved IP address to the Magento service of the chart. However please note that this feature is only available on a few cloud providers (f.e. GKE).
>
> To reserve a public IP address on GKE:
>
> ```bash
> $ gcloud compute addresses create magento-public-ip
> ```
>
> The reserved IP address can be associated to the Magento service by specifying it as the value of the `magentoLoadBalancerIP` parameter while installing the chart.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set magentoUsername=admin,magentoPassword=password,mariadb.mariadbRootPassword=secretpassword \
    stable/magento
```

The above command sets the Magento administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively. Additionally, it sets the MariaDB `root` user password to `secretpassword`.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/magento
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [Bitnami Magento](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento) image stores the Magento data and configurations at the `/bitnami/magento` and `/bitnami/apache` paths of the container.

Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments. This is known to work in GCE, AWS, and minikube.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section to configure the PVC or to disable persistence.

## Upgrading

### To 3.0.0

Backwards compatibility is not guaranteed unless you modify the labels used on the chart's deployments.
Use the workaround below to upgrade from versions previous to 3.0.0. The following example assumes that the release name is magento:

```console
$ kubectl patch deployment magento-magento --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
$ kubectl delete statefulset magento-mariadb --cascade=false

Commit message:

[stable/magento] Add kubeapps text to charts READMEs (#8212)
Signed-off-by: Carlos Rodriguez Hernandez <crhernandez@bitnami.com>

stable/magento/README.md, after:

# Magento

[Magento](https://magento.org/) is a feature-rich flexible e-commerce solution. It includes transaction options, multi-store functionality, loyalty programs, product categorization and shopper filtering, promotion rules, and more.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/magento
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [Magento](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

It also packages the [Bitnami MariaDB chart](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/mariadb) which is required for bootstrapping a MariaDB deployment as a database for the Magento application.

Bitnami charts can be used with [Kubeapps](https://kubeapps.com/) for deployment and management of Helm Charts in clusters.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.4+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/magento
```

The command deploys Magento on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Magento chart and their default values.

|             Parameter              |               Description                |                         Default                          |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| `image.registry`                   | Magento image registry                   | `docker.io`                                              |
| `image.repository`                 | Magento Image name                       | `bitnami/magento`                                        |
| `image.tag`                        | Magento Image tag                        | `{VERSION}`                                              |
| `image.pullPolicy`                 | Image pull policy                        | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent`  |
| `image.pullSecrets`                | Specify image pull secrets               | `nil`                                                    |
| `magentoHost`                      | Magento host to create application URLs  | `nil`                                                    |
| `magentoLoadBalancerIP`            | `loadBalancerIP` for the magento Service | `nil`                                                    |
| `magentoUsername`                  | User of the application                  | `user`                                                   |
| `magentoPassword`                  | Application password                     | _random 10 character long alphanumeric string_           |
| `magentoEmail`                     | Admin email                              | `user@example.com`                                       |
| `magentoFirstName`                 | Magento Admin First Name                 | `FirstName`                                              |
| `magentoLastName`                  | Magento Admin Last Name                  | `LastName`                                               |
| `magentoMode`                      | Magento mode                             | `developer`                                              |
| `magentoAdminUri`                  | Magento prefix to access Magento Admin   | `admin`                                                  |
| `allowEmptyPassword`               | Allow DB blank passwords                 | `yes`                                                    |
| `externalDatabase.host`            | Host of the external database            | `nil`                                                    |
| `externalDatabase.port`            | Port of the external database            | `3306`                                                   |
| `externalDatabase.user`            | Existing username in the external db     | `bn_magento`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.password`        | Password for the above username          | `nil`                                                    |
| `externalDatabase.database`        | Name of the existing database            | `bitnami_magento`                                        |
| `mariadb.enabled`                  | Whether to use the MariaDB chart           | `true`                                                   |
| `mariadb.rootUser.password`      | MariaDB admin password                   | `nil`                                                    |
| `mariadb.db.name`          | Database name to create                  | `bitnami_magento`                                        |
| `mariadb.db.user`              | Database user to create                  | `bn_magento`                                             |
| `mariadb.db.password`          | Password for the database                | _random 10 character long alphanumeric string_           |
| `serviceType`                      | Kubernetes Service type                  | `LoadBalancer`                                           |
| `persistence.enabled`              | Enable persistence using PVC             | `true`                                                   |
| `persistence.apache.storageClass`  | PVC Storage Class for Apache volume      | `nil`  (uses alpha storage annotation)                   |
| `persistence.apache.accessMode`    | PVC Access Mode for Apache volume        | `ReadWriteOnce`                                          |
| `persistence.apache.size`          | PVC Storage Request for Apache volume    | `1Gi`                                                    |
| `persistence.magento.storageClass` | PVC Storage Class for Magento volume     | `nil`  (uses alpha storage annotation)                   |
| `persistence.magento.accessMode`   | PVC Access Mode for Magento volume       | `ReadWriteOnce`                                          |
| `persistence.magento.size`         | PVC Storage Request for Magento volume   | `8Gi`                                                    |
| `resources`                        | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits      | Memory: `512Mi`, CPU: `300m`                             |

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [bitnami/magento](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento). For more information please refer to the [bitnami/magento](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento) image documentation.

> **Note**:
>
> For Magento to function correctly, you should specify the `magentoHost` parameter to specify the FQDN (recommended) or the public IP address of the Magento service.
>
> Optionally, you can specify the `magentoLoadBalancerIP` parameter to assign a reserved IP address to the Magento service of the chart. However please note that this feature is only available on a few cloud providers (f.e. GKE).
>
> To reserve a public IP address on GKE:
>
> ```bash
> $ gcloud compute addresses create magento-public-ip
> ```
>
> The reserved IP address can be associated to the Magento service by specifying it as the value of the `magentoLoadBalancerIP` parameter while installing the chart.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set magentoUsername=admin,magentoPassword=password,mariadb.mariadbRootPassword=secretpassword \
    stable/magento
```

The above command sets the Magento administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively. Additionally, it sets the MariaDB `root` user password to `secretpassword`.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/magento
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [Bitnami Magento](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-magento) image stores the Magento data and configurations at the `/bitnami/magento` and `/bitnami/apache` paths of the container.

Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments. This is known to work in GCE, AWS, and minikube.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section to configure the PVC or to disable persistence.

## Upgrading

### To 3.0.0

Backwards compatibility is not guaranteed unless you modify the labels used on the chart's deployments.
Use the workaround below to upgrade from versions previous to 3.0.0. The following example assumes that the release name is magento:

```console
$ kubectl patch deployment magento-magento --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
$ kubectl delete statefulset magento-mariadb --cascade=false
