stable/chartmuseum/README.md, before:

# ChartMuseum Helm Chart

Deploy your own private ChartMuseum.   

Please also see https://github.com/kubernetes-helm/chartmuseum

## Table of Content

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->


- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Using with Amazon S3](#using-with-amazon-s3)
    - [permissions grant with access keys](#permissions-grant-with-access-keys)
    - [permissions grant with IAM instance profile](#permissions-grant-with-iam-instance-profile)
    - [permissions grant with IAM assumed role](#permissions-grant-with-iam-assumed-role)
  - [Using with Google Cloud Storage](#using-with-google-cloud-storage)
  - [Using with Microsoft Azure Blob Storage](#using-with-microsoft-azure-blob-storage)
  - [Using with Alibaba Cloud OSS Storage](#using-with-alibaba-cloud-oss-storage)
  - [Using with local filesystem storage](#using-with-local-filesystem-storage)
    - [Example storage class](#example-storage-class)
- [Uninstall](#uninstall)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
 

## Prerequisites

* Kubernetes with extensions/v1beta1 available
* [If enabled] A persistent storage resource and RW access to it
* [If enabled] Kubernetes StorageClass for dynamic provisioning

## Configuration

By default this chart will not have persistent storage, and the API service
will be *DISABLED*.  This protects against unauthorized access to the API
with default configuration values.

For a more robust solution supply helm install with a custom values.yaml   
You are also required to create the StorageClass resource ahead of time:   
```
kubectl create -f /path/to/storage_class.yaml
```

The following table lists common configurable parameters of the chart and
their default values. See values.yaml for all available options. 

|       Parameter                        |           Description                       |                         Default                     |
|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `image.pullPolicy`                     | Container pull policy                       | `IfNotPresent`                                      |
| `image.repository`                     | Container image to use                      | `chartmuseum/chartmuseum`                           |
| `image.tag`                            | Container image tag to deploy               | `v0.7.1`                                            |
| `persistence.accessMode`               | Access mode to use for PVC                  | `ReadWriteOnce`                                     |
| `persistence.enabled`                  | Whether to use a PVC for persistent storage | `false`                                             |
| `persistence.size`                     | Amount of space to claim for PVC            | `8Gi`                                               |
| `persistence.storageClass`             | Storage Class to use for PVC                | `-`                                                 |
| `replicaCount`                         | k8s replicas                                | `1`                                                 |
| `resources.limits.cpu`                 | Container maximum CPU                       | `100m`                                              |
| `resources.limits.memory`              | Container maximum memory                    | `128Mi`                                             |
| `resources.requests.cpu`               | Container requested CPU                     | `80m`                                               |
| `resources.requests.memory`            | Container requested memory                  | `64Mi`                                              |
| `serviceAccount.create`                | If true, create the service account         | `false`                                             |
| `serviceAccount.name`                  | Name of the serviceAccount to create or use | `{{ chartmuseum.fullname }}`                        |
| `securityContext`                      | Map of securityContext for the pod          | `{}`                                                |
| `nodeSelector`                         | Map of node labels for pod assignment       | `{}`                                                |
| `tolerations`                          | List of node taints to tolerate             | `[]`                                                |
| `affinity`                             | Map of node/pod affinities                  | `{}`                                                |
| `env.open.STORAGE`                     | Storage Backend to use                      | `local`                                             |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_BUCKET`              | Bucket to store charts in for Alibaba       | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_PREFIX`              | Prefix to store charts under for Alibaba    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_ENDPOINT`            | Alternative Alibaba endpoint                | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_SSE`                 | Server side encryption algorithm to use     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_BUCKET`               | Bucket to store charts in for AWS           | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_ENDPOINT`             | Alternative AWS endpoint                    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_PREFIX`               | Prefix to store charts under for AWS        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_REGION`               | Region to use for bucket access for AWS     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_SSE`                  | Server side encryption algorithm to use     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.GOOGLE_BUCKET`               | Bucket to store charts in for GCP           | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.GOOGLE_PREFIX`               | Prefix to store charts under for GCP        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_MICROSOFT_CONTAINER` | Container to store charts under for MS      | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_MICROSOFT_PREFIX`    | Prefix to store charts under for MS         | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_CONTAINER` | Container to store charts for openstack     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_PREFIX`    | Prefix to store charts for openstack        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_REGION`    | Region of openstack container               | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_CACERT`    | Path to a CA cert bundle for openstack      | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CHART_POST_FORM_FIELD_NAME`  | Form field to query for chart file content  | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.PROV_POST_FORM_FIELD_NAME`   | Form field to query for chart provenance    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.DEPTH`                       | levels of nested repos for multitenancy.    | `0`                                                 |
| `env.open.DEBUG`                       | Show debug messages                         | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.LOG_JSON`                    | Output structured logs in JSON              | `true`                                              |
| `env.open.DISABLE_STATEFILES`          | Disable use of index-cache.yaml             | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.DISABLE_METRICS`             | Disable Prometheus metrics                  | `true`                                              |
| `env.open.DISABLE_API`                 | Disable all routes prefixed with /api       | `true`                                              |
| `env.open.ALLOW_OVERWRITE`             | Allow chart versions to be re-uploaded      | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.CHART_URL`                   | Absolute url for .tgzs in index.yaml        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AUTH_ANONYMOUS_GET`          | Allow anon GET operations when auth is used | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.CONTEXT_PATH`                | Set the base context path                   | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.INDEX_LIMIT`                 | Parallel scan limit for the repo indexer    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CACHE`                       | Cache store, can be one of: redis           | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CACHE_REDIS_ADDR`            | Address of Redis service (host:port)        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CACHE_REDIS_DB`              | Redis database to be selected after connect | `0`                                                 |
| `env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_USER`           | Username for basic HTTP authentication      | ``                                                  |
| `env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_PASS`           | Password for basic HTTP authentication      | ``                                                  |
| `env.secret.CACHE_REDIS_PASSWORD`      | Redis requirepass server configuration      | ``                                                  |
| `gcp.secret.enabled`                   | Flag for the GCP service account            | `false`                                             |
| `gcp.secret.name`                      | Secret name for the GCP json file           | ``                                                  |
| `gcp.secret.key`                       | Secret key for te GCP json file             | `credentials.json`                                  |

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to
`helm install`.

## Installation

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Amazon S3
Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `my-s3-bucket`

You need at least the following permissions inside your IAM Policy
```yaml
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "AllowListObjects",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:ListBucket"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-s3-bucket"
    },
    {
      "Sid": "AllowObjectsCRUD",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:DeleteObject",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:PutObject"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-s3-bucket/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

You can grant it to `chartmuseum` by several ways:

#### permissions grant with access keys

Grant permissions to `special user` and us it's access keys for auth on aws

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: amazon
    STORAGE_AMAZON_BUCKET: my-s3-bucket
    STORAGE_AMAZON_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_AMAZON_REGION: us-east-1
  secret:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "********" ## aws access key id value
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: "********" ## aws access key secret value 
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

#### permissions grant with IAM instance profile

You can grant permissions to k8s node IAM instance profile.
For more information read this [article](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html)

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: amazon
    STORAGE_AMAZON_BUCKET: my-s3-bucket
    STORAGE_AMAZON_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_AMAZON_REGION: us-east-1
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

#### permissions grant with IAM assumed role

To provide access with assumed role you need to install [kube2iam](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/kube2iam)
and create role with granded permissions.

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: amazon
    STORAGE_AMAZON_BUCKET: my-s3-bucket
    STORAGE_AMAZON_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_AMAZON_REGION: us-east-1
replica:
  annotations:
    iam.amazonaws.com/role: "{assumed role name}"
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Google Cloud Storage
Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `my-gcs-bucket`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: google
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: my-gcs-bucket
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_PREFIX:    
```

### Using with Google Cloud Storage and a Google Service Account

A Google service account credentials are stored in a json file. There are two approaches here. Ideally you don't want to send your secrets to tiller. In that case, before installing this chart, you should create a secret with those credentials:

```shell
kubectl create secret generic chartmuseum-secret --from-file=credentials.json="my-project-45e35d85a593.json"
```

Then you can either use a `VALUES` yaml with your values or set those values in the command line:

```shell
helm install stable/chartmuseum --debug  --set gcp.secret.enabled=true,env.open.STORAGE=google,env.open.DISABLE_API=false,env.open.STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET=my-gcp-chartmuseum,gcp.secret.name=chartmuseum-secret
```

If you prefer to use a yaml file:

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: google
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: my-gcs-bucket
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_PREFIX:

gcp:
  secret:
    enabled: true
    name: chartmuseum-secret
    key: credentials.json
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

In case that you don't mind adding your secret to tiller (you shouldn't do it), this are the commands

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: google
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: my-gcs-bucket
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_PREFIX:
  secret:
    GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS_JSON: my-json-file-base64-encoded
gcp:
  secret:
    enabled: true

```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

To set the values directly in the command line, use the follosing command. Note that we have to base64 encode the json file because we cannot pass a multi-line text as a value.

```shell
export JSONKEY=$(cat my-project-77e35d85a593.json | base64)
helm install stable/chartmuseum --debug  --set gcp.secret.enabled=true,env.secret.GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS_JSON=${JSONKEY},env.open.STORAGE=google,env.open.DISABLE_API=false,env.open.STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET=my-gcp-chartmuseum
```

### Using with Microsoft Azure Blob Storage

Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `mycontainer`.

To do so, you must set the following env vars:
- `AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT`
- `AZURE_STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: microsoft
    STORAGE_MICROSOFT_CONTAINER: mycontainer
    # prefix to store charts for microsoft storage backend
    STORAGE_MICROSOFT_PREFIX:    
  secret:
    AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT: "********" ## azure storage account
    AZURE_STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY: "********" ## azure storage account access key 
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Alibaba Cloud OSS Storage

Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `my-oss-bucket`.

To do so, you must set the following env vars:
- `ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
- `ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: alibaba
    STORAGE_ALIBABA_BUCKET: my-oss-bucket
    STORAGE_ALIBABA_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_ALIBABA_ENDPOINT: oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com
  secret:
    ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "********" ## alibaba OSS access key id
    ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET: "********" ## alibaba OSS access key secret 
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Openstack Object Storage

Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `mycontainer`.

To do so, you must set the following env vars (depending on your openstack version):
- `OS_AUTH_URL`
- either `OS_PROJECT_NAME` or `OS_TENANT_NAME` or `OS_PROJECT_ID` or `OS_TENANT_ID`
- either `OS_DOMAIN_NAME` or `OS_DOMAIN_ID`
- either `OS_USERNAME` or `OS_USERID`
- `OS_PASSWORD`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: openstack
    STORAGE_OPENSTACK_CONTAINER: mycontainer
    STORAGE_OPENSTACK_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_OPENSTACK_REGION: YOURREGION
  secret:
    OS_AUTH_URL: https://myauth.url.com/v2.0/
    OS_TENANT_ID: yourtenantid
    OS_USERNAME: yourusername
    OS_PASSWORD: yourpassword
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with local filesystem storage
By default chartmuseum uses local filesystem storage. 
But on pod recreation it will lose all charts, to prevent that enable persistent storage. 

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: local
persistence:
  enabled: true
  accessMode: ReadWriteOnce
  size: 8Gi
  ## A manually managed Persistent Volume and Claim
  ## Requires persistence.enabled: true
  ## If defined, PVC must be created manually before volume will be bound
  # existingClaim:

  ## Chartmuseum data Persistent Volume Storage Class
  ## If defined, storageClassName: <storageClass>
  ## If set to "-", storageClassName: "", which disables dynamic provisioning
  ## If undefined (the default) or set to null, no storageClassName spec is
  ##   set, choosing the default provisioner.  (gp2 on AWS, standard on
  ##   GKE, AWS & OpenStack)
  ##
  # storageClass: "-"
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

#### Example storage class

Example storage-class.yaml provided here for use with a Ceph cluster.   

```
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: storage-volume
provisioner: kubernetes.io/rbd
parameters:
  monitors: "10.11.12.13:4567,10.11.12.14:4567"
  adminId: admin
  adminSecretName: thesecret
  adminSecretNamespace: default
  pool: chartstore
  userId: user
  userSecretName: thesecret 
```

## Uninstall 

By default, a deliberate uninstall will result in the persistent volume 
claim being deleted.   

```shell
helm delete my-chartmuseum
```

To delete the deployment and its history:
```shell
helm delete --purge my-chartmuseum
```

Commit message:

Added support for clusterIP and headless services. (#8312)
Signed-off-by: Arvind Gupta <guptaarvindk@gmail.com>

stable/chartmuseum/README.md, after:

# ChartMuseum Helm Chart

Deploy your own private ChartMuseum.   

Please also see https://github.com/kubernetes-helm/chartmuseum

## Table of Content

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->


- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Using with Amazon S3](#using-with-amazon-s3)
    - [permissions grant with access keys](#permissions-grant-with-access-keys)
    - [permissions grant with IAM instance profile](#permissions-grant-with-iam-instance-profile)
    - [permissions grant with IAM assumed role](#permissions-grant-with-iam-assumed-role)
  - [Using with Google Cloud Storage](#using-with-google-cloud-storage)
  - [Using with Microsoft Azure Blob Storage](#using-with-microsoft-azure-blob-storage)
  - [Using with Alibaba Cloud OSS Storage](#using-with-alibaba-cloud-oss-storage)
  - [Using with local filesystem storage](#using-with-local-filesystem-storage)
    - [Example storage class](#example-storage-class)
- [Uninstall](#uninstall)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->


## Prerequisites

* Kubernetes with extensions/v1beta1 available
* [If enabled] A persistent storage resource and RW access to it
* [If enabled] Kubernetes StorageClass for dynamic provisioning

## Configuration

By default this chart will not have persistent storage, and the API service
will be *DISABLED*.  This protects against unauthorized access to the API
with default configuration values.

For a more robust solution supply helm install with a custom values.yaml   
You are also required to create the StorageClass resource ahead of time:   
```
kubectl create -f /path/to/storage_class.yaml
```

The following table lists common configurable parameters of the chart and
their default values. See values.yaml for all available options.

|       Parameter                        |           Description                       |                         Default                     |
|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `image.pullPolicy`                     | Container pull policy                       | `IfNotPresent`                                      |
| `image.repository`                     | Container image to use                      | `chartmuseum/chartmuseum`                           |
| `image.tag`                            | Container image tag to deploy               | `v0.7.1`                                            |
| `persistence.accessMode`               | Access mode to use for PVC                  | `ReadWriteOnce`                                     |
| `persistence.enabled`                  | Whether to use a PVC for persistent storage | `false`                                             |
| `persistence.size`                     | Amount of space to claim for PVC            | `8Gi`                                               |
| `persistence.storageClass`             | Storage Class to use for PVC                | `-`                                                 |
| `replicaCount`                         | k8s replicas                                | `1`                                                 |
| `resources.limits.cpu`                 | Container maximum CPU                       | `100m`                                              |
| `resources.limits.memory`              | Container maximum memory                    | `128Mi`                                             |
| `resources.requests.cpu`               | Container requested CPU                     | `80m`                                               |
| `resources.requests.memory`            | Container requested memory                  | `64Mi`                                              |
| `serviceAccount.create`                | If true, create the service account         | `false`                                             |
| `serviceAccount.name`                  | Name of the serviceAccount to create or use | `{{ chartmuseum.fullname }}`                        |
| `securityContext`                      | Map of securityContext for the pod          | `{}`                                                |
| `nodeSelector`                         | Map of node labels for pod assignment       | `{}`                                                |
| `tolerations`                          | List of node taints to tolerate             | `[]`                                                |
| `affinity`                             | Map of node/pod affinities                  | `{}`                                                |
| `env.open.STORAGE`                     | Storage Backend to use                      | `local`                                             |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_BUCKET`              | Bucket to store charts in for Alibaba       | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_PREFIX`              | Prefix to store charts under for Alibaba    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_ENDPOINT`            | Alternative Alibaba endpoint                | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.ALIBABA_SSE`                 | Server side encryption algorithm to use     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_BUCKET`               | Bucket to store charts in for AWS           | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_ENDPOINT`             | Alternative AWS endpoint                    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_PREFIX`               | Prefix to store charts under for AWS        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_REGION`               | Region to use for bucket access for AWS     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AMAZON_SSE`                  | Server side encryption algorithm to use     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.GOOGLE_BUCKET`               | Bucket to store charts in for GCP           | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.GOOGLE_PREFIX`               | Prefix to store charts under for GCP        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_MICROSOFT_CONTAINER` | Container to store charts under for MS      | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_MICROSOFT_PREFIX`    | Prefix to store charts under for MS         | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_CONTAINER` | Container to store charts for openstack     | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_PREFIX`    | Prefix to store charts for openstack        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_REGION`    | Region of openstack container               | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.STORAGE_OPENSTACK_CACERT`    | Path to a CA cert bundle for openstack      | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CHART_POST_FORM_FIELD_NAME`  | Form field to query for chart file content  | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.PROV_POST_FORM_FIELD_NAME`   | Form field to query for chart provenance    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.DEPTH`                       | levels of nested repos for multitenancy.    | `0`                                                 |
| `env.open.DEBUG`                       | Show debug messages                         | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.LOG_JSON`                    | Output structured logs in JSON              | `true`                                              |
| `env.open.DISABLE_STATEFILES`          | Disable use of index-cache.yaml             | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.DISABLE_METRICS`             | Disable Prometheus metrics                  | `true`                                              |
| `env.open.DISABLE_API`                 | Disable all routes prefixed with /api       | `true`                                              |
| `env.open.ALLOW_OVERWRITE`             | Allow chart versions to be re-uploaded      | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.CHART_URL`                   | Absolute url for .tgzs in index.yaml        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.AUTH_ANONYMOUS_GET`          | Allow anon GET operations when auth is used | `false`                                             |
| `env.open.CONTEXT_PATH`                | Set the base context path                   | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.INDEX_LIMIT`                 | Parallel scan limit for the repo indexer    | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CACHE`                       | Cache store, can be one of: redis           | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CACHE_REDIS_ADDR`            | Address of Redis service (host:port)        | ``                                                  |
| `env.open.CACHE_REDIS_DB`              | Redis database to be selected after connect | `0`                                                 |
| `env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_USER`           | Username for basic HTTP authentication      | ``                                                  |
| `env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_PASS`           | Password for basic HTTP authentication      | ``                                                  |
| `env.secret.CACHE_REDIS_PASSWORD`      | Redis requirepass server configuration      | ``                                                  |
| `gcp.secret.enabled`                   | Flag for the GCP service account            | `false`                                             |
| `gcp.secret.name`                      | Secret name for the GCP json file           | ``                                                  |
| `gcp.secret.key`                       | Secret key for te GCP json file             | `credentials.json`                                  |
| `service.type`                         | Kubernetes Service type                     | `ClusterIP`                                          |
| `service.clusterIP`                    | Static clusterIP or None for headless services| `nil`                                              |

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to
`helm install`.

## Installation

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Amazon S3
Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `my-s3-bucket`

You need at least the following permissions inside your IAM Policy
```yaml
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "AllowListObjects",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:ListBucket"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-s3-bucket"
    },
    {
      "Sid": "AllowObjectsCRUD",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:DeleteObject",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:PutObject"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-s3-bucket/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

You can grant it to `chartmuseum` by several ways:

#### permissions grant with access keys

Grant permissions to `special user` and us it's access keys for auth on aws

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: amazon
    STORAGE_AMAZON_BUCKET: my-s3-bucket
    STORAGE_AMAZON_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_AMAZON_REGION: us-east-1
  secret:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "********" ## aws access key id value
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: "********" ## aws access key secret value
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

#### permissions grant with IAM instance profile

You can grant permissions to k8s node IAM instance profile.
For more information read this [article](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html)

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: amazon
    STORAGE_AMAZON_BUCKET: my-s3-bucket
    STORAGE_AMAZON_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_AMAZON_REGION: us-east-1
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

#### permissions grant with IAM assumed role

To provide access with assumed role you need to install [kube2iam](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/kube2iam)
and create role with granded permissions.

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: amazon
    STORAGE_AMAZON_BUCKET: my-s3-bucket
    STORAGE_AMAZON_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_AMAZON_REGION: us-east-1
replica:
  annotations:
    iam.amazonaws.com/role: "{assumed role name}"
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Google Cloud Storage
Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `my-gcs-bucket`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: google
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: my-gcs-bucket
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_PREFIX:    
```

### Using with Google Cloud Storage and a Google Service Account

A Google service account credentials are stored in a json file. There are two approaches here. Ideally you don't want to send your secrets to tiller. In that case, before installing this chart, you should create a secret with those credentials:

```shell
kubectl create secret generic chartmuseum-secret --from-file=credentials.json="my-project-45e35d85a593.json"
```

Then you can either use a `VALUES` yaml with your values or set those values in the command line:

```shell
helm install stable/chartmuseum --debug  --set gcp.secret.enabled=true,env.open.STORAGE=google,env.open.DISABLE_API=false,env.open.STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET=my-gcp-chartmuseum,gcp.secret.name=chartmuseum-secret
```

If you prefer to use a yaml file:

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: google
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: my-gcs-bucket
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_PREFIX:

gcp:
  secret:
    enabled: true
    name: chartmuseum-secret
    key: credentials.json
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

In case that you don't mind adding your secret to tiller (you shouldn't do it), this are the commands

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: google
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: my-gcs-bucket
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_PREFIX:
  secret:
    GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS_JSON: my-json-file-base64-encoded
gcp:
  secret:
    enabled: true

```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

To set the values directly in the command line, use the follosing command. Note that we have to base64 encode the json file because we cannot pass a multi-line text as a value.

```shell
export JSONKEY=$(cat my-project-77e35d85a593.json | base64)
helm install stable/chartmuseum --debug  --set gcp.secret.enabled=true,env.secret.GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS_JSON=${JSONKEY},env.open.STORAGE=google,env.open.DISABLE_API=false,env.open.STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET=my-gcp-chartmuseum
```

### Using with Microsoft Azure Blob Storage

Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `mycontainer`.

To do so, you must set the following env vars:
- `AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT`
- `AZURE_STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: microsoft
    STORAGE_MICROSOFT_CONTAINER: mycontainer
    # prefix to store charts for microsoft storage backend
    STORAGE_MICROSOFT_PREFIX:    
  secret:
    AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT: "********" ## azure storage account
    AZURE_STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY: "********" ## azure storage account access key
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Alibaba Cloud OSS Storage

Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `my-oss-bucket`.

To do so, you must set the following env vars:
- `ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
- `ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: alibaba
    STORAGE_ALIBABA_BUCKET: my-oss-bucket
    STORAGE_ALIBABA_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_ALIBABA_ENDPOINT: oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com
  secret:
    ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "********" ## alibaba OSS access key id
    ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET: "********" ## alibaba OSS access key secret
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with Openstack Object Storage

Make sure your environment is properly setup to access `mycontainer`.

To do so, you must set the following env vars (depending on your openstack version):
- `OS_AUTH_URL`
- either `OS_PROJECT_NAME` or `OS_TENANT_NAME` or `OS_PROJECT_ID` or `OS_TENANT_ID`
- either `OS_DOMAIN_NAME` or `OS_DOMAIN_ID`
- either `OS_USERNAME` or `OS_USERID`
- `OS_PASSWORD`

Specify `custom.yaml` with such values

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: openstack
    STORAGE_OPENSTACK_CONTAINER: mycontainer
    STORAGE_OPENSTACK_PREFIX:
    STORAGE_OPENSTACK_REGION: YOURREGION
  secret:
    OS_AUTH_URL: https://myauth.url.com/v2.0/
    OS_TENANT_ID: yourtenantid
    OS_USERNAME: yourusername
    OS_PASSWORD: yourpassword
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

### Using with local filesystem storage
By default chartmuseum uses local filesystem storage.
But on pod recreation it will lose all charts, to prevent that enable persistent storage.

```yaml
env:
  open:
    STORAGE: local
persistence:
  enabled: true
  accessMode: ReadWriteOnce
  size: 8Gi
  ## A manually managed Persistent Volume and Claim
  ## Requires persistence.enabled: true
  ## If defined, PVC must be created manually before volume will be bound
  # existingClaim:

  ## Chartmuseum data Persistent Volume Storage Class
  ## If defined, storageClassName: <storageClass>
  ## If set to "-", storageClassName: "", which disables dynamic provisioning
  ## If undefined (the default) or set to null, no storageClassName spec is
  ##   set, choosing the default provisioner.  (gp2 on AWS, standard on
  ##   GKE, AWS & OpenStack)
  ##
  # storageClass: "-"
```

Run command to install

```shell
helm install --name my-chartmuseum -f custom.yaml stable/chartmuseum
```

#### Example storage class

Example storage-class.yaml provided here for use with a Ceph cluster.   

```
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: storage-volume
provisioner: kubernetes.io/rbd
parameters:
  monitors: "10.11.12.13:4567,10.11.12.14:4567"
  adminId: admin
  adminSecretName: thesecret
  adminSecretNamespace: default
  pool: chartstore
  userId: user
  userSecretName: thesecret
```

## Uninstall

By default, a deliberate uninstall will result in the persistent volume
claim being deleted.   

```shell
helm delete my-chartmuseum
```

To delete the deployment and its history:
```shell
helm delete --purge my-chartmuseum
```
