stable/postgresql/README.md, before:

# PostgreSQL

[PostgreSQL](https://postgresql.org) is a powerful, open source object-relational database system. It has more than 15 years of active development and a proven architecture that has earned it a strong reputation for reliability, data integrity, and correctness.

## TL;DR;

```bash
$ helm install stable/postgresql
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [PostgreSQL](https://github.com/docker-library/postgres) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.4+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure (Only when persisting data)

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release stable/postgresql
```

The command deploys PostgreSQL on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```bash
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the PostgreSQL chart and their default values.

| Parameter                  | Description                                     | Default                                                    |
| -----------------------    | ---------------------------------------------   | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `image`                    | `postgres` image repository                     | `postgres`                                                 |
| `imageTag`                 | `postgres` image tag                            | `9.6.2`                                                    |
| `imagePullPolicy`          | Image pull policy                               | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent`    |
| `imagePullSecrets`         | Image pull secrets                              | `nil`                                                      |
| `postgresUser`             | Username of new user to create.                 | `postgres`                                                 |
| `postgresPassword`         | Password for the new user.                      | random 10 characters                                       |
| `usePasswordFile`          | Inject the password via file instead of env var | `false`                                                    |
| `postgresDatabase`         | Name for new database to create.                | `postgres`                                                 |
| `postgresInitdbArgs`       | Initdb Arguments                                | `nil`                                                      |
| `schedulerName`            | Name of an alternate scheduler                  | `nil`                                                      |
| `existingSecret`           | Use Existing secret for Admin password          | `nil`                                                      |
| `postgresConfig`           | Runtime Config Parameters                       | `nil`                                                      |
| `pgHbaConf`                | Content of pg\_hba.conf                         | `nil (do not create pg_hba.conf)`                          |
| `persistence.enabled`      | Use a PVC to persist data                       | `true`                                                     |
| `persistence.existingClaim`| Provide an existing PersistentVolumeClaim       | `nil`                                                      |
| `persistence.storageClass` | Storage class of backing PVC                    | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)                |
| `persistence.accessMode`   | Use volume as ReadOnly or ReadWrite             | `ReadWriteOnce`                                            |
| `persistence.annotations`  | Persistent Volume annotations                   | `{}`                                                       |
| `persistence.size`         | Size of data volume                             | `8Gi`                                                      |
| `persistence.subPath`      | Subdirectory of the volume to mount at          | `postgresql-db`                                            |
| `persistence.mountPath`    | Mount path of data volume                       | `/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata`                          |
| `persistence.resourcePolicy` | set resource-policy Helm annotation on PVC. Can be nil or "keep" | `nil`                                   |
| `resources`                | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits             | Memory: `256Mi`, CPU: `100m`                               |
| `metrics.enabled`          | Start a side-car prometheus exporter            | `false`                                                    |
| `metrics.image`            | Exporter image                                  | `wrouesnel/postgres_exporter`                              |
| `metrics.imageTag`         | Exporter image                                  | `v0.1.1`                                                   |
| `metrics.imagePullPolicy`  | Exporter image pull policy                      | `IfNotPresent`                                             |
| `metrics.resources`        | Exporter resource requests/limit                | Memory: `256Mi`, CPU: `100m`                               |
| `metrics.customMetrics`    | Additional custom metrics                       | `nil`                                                      |
| `service.externalIPs`      | External IPs to listen on                       | `[]`                                                       |
| `service.port`             | TCP port                                        | `5432`                                                     |
| `service.type`             | k8s service type exposing ports, e.g. `NodePort`| `ClusterIP`                                                |
| `service.nodePort`         | NodePort value if service.type is `NodePort`    | `nil`                                                      |
| `networkPolicy.enabled`    | Enable NetworkPolicy                            | `false`                                                    |
| `networkPolicy.allowExternal` | Don't require client label for connections   | `true`                                                     |
| `nodeSelector`             | Node labels for pod assignment                  | {}                                                         |
| `affinity`                 | Affinity settings for pod assignment            | {}                                                         |
| `tolerations`              | Toleration labels for pod assignment            | []                                                         |
| `terminationGracePeriodSeconds`     | Optional duration in seconds the pod needs to terminate gracefully | `nil`                          |
| `probes.liveness.initialDelay`      | Liveness probe initial delay           | `60`                                                       |
| `probes.liveness.timeoutSeconds`    | Liveness probe timeout seconds         | `5`                                                        |
| `probes.liveness.failureThreshold`  | Liveness probe failure threshold       | `6`                                                        |
| `probes.readiness.initialDelay`     | Readiness probe initial delay          | `5`                                                        |
| `probes.readiness.timeoutSeconds`   | Readiness probe timeout seconds        | `3`                                                        |
| `probes.readiness.failureThreshold` | Readiness probe failure threshold      | `5`                                                        |
| `podAnnotations`           | Annotations for the postgresql pod              | {}                                                         |
| `deploymentAnnotations`    | Annotations for the postgresql deployment       | {}                                                         |

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [postgres](http://github.com/docker-library/postgres). For more information please refer to the [postgres](http://github.com/docker-library/postgres) image documentation.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set postgresUser=my-user,postgresPassword=secretpassword,postgresDatabase=my-database \
    stable/postgresql
```

The above command creates a PostgreSQL user named `my-user` with password `secretpassword`. Additionally it creates a database named `my-database`.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/postgresql
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [postgres](https://github.com/docker-library/postgres) image stores the PostgreSQL data and configurations at the `/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata` path of the container.

The chart mounts a [Persistent Volume](http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/persistent-volumes/) at this location. The volume is created using dynamic volume provisioning. If the PersistentVolumeClaim should not be managed by the chart, define `persistence.existingClaim`.

Note: When using persistence ensure that you either provide a `postgresPassword` or use `existingSecret`, otherwise `helm update` will generate a new random password which is ignored by postgres. That will cause confusing behaviour especially if services depend on the secret

### Existing PersistentVolumeClaims

1. Create the PersistentVolume
1. Create the PersistentVolumeClaim
1. Install the chart
```bash
$ helm install --set persistence.existingClaim=PVC_NAME postgresql
```

The volume defaults to mount at a subdirectory of the volume instead of the volume root to avoid the volume's hidden directories from interfering with `initdb`.  If you are upgrading this chart from before version `0.4.0`, set `persistence.subPath` to `""`.

## Metrics
The chart optionally can start a metrics exporter for [prometheus](https://prometheus.io). The metrics endpoint (port 9187) is not exposed and it is expected that the metrics are collected from inside the k8s cluster using something similar as the described in the [example Prometheus scrape configuration](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/blob/master/documentation/examples/prometheus-kubernetes.yml).

The exporter allows to create custom metrics from additional SQL queries. See the Chart's `values.yaml` for an example and consult the [exporters documentation](https://github.com/wrouesnel/postgres_exporter#adding-new-metrics-via-a-config-file) for more details.

## NetworkPolicy

To enable network policy for PostgreSQL,
install [a networking plugin that implements the Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy spec](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/declare-network-policy#before-you-begin),
and set `networkPolicy.enabled` to `true`.

For Kubernetes v1.5 & v1.6, you must also turn on NetworkPolicy by setting
the DefaultDeny namespace annotation. Note: this will enforce policy for _all_ pods in the namespace:

    kubectl annotate namespace default "net.beta.kubernetes.io/network-policy={\"ingress\":{\"isolation\":\"DefaultDeny\"}}"

With NetworkPolicy enabled, traffic will be limited to just port 5432.

For more precise policy, set `networkPolicy.allowExternal=false`. This will
only allow pods with the generated client label to connect to PostgreSQL.
This label will be displayed in the output of a successful install.

Commit message:

Added option for custom environment variables for PostgreSQL. (#7589)
This commit enables the user to specify additional environment
variables in the postgres chart.

This is especially important for custom Postgres images which might
have different environment variables for different options or for
enabling additional features.

Furthermore versions have been updated:
- Chart version has been set to 1.0.0, as this is a stable chart

Signed-off-by: Bojan Čekrlić <bojan@cekrlic.com>

stable/postgresql/README.md, after:

# PostgreSQL

[PostgreSQL](https://postgresql.org) is a powerful, open source object-relational database system. It has more than 15 years of active development and a proven architecture that has earned it a strong reputation for reliability, data integrity, and correctness.

## TL;DR;

```bash
$ helm install stable/postgresql
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [PostgreSQL](https://github.com/docker-library/postgres) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.4+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure (Only when persisting data)

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release stable/postgresql
```

The command deploys PostgreSQL on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```bash
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the PostgreSQL chart and their default values.

| Parameter                  | Description                                     | Default                                                    |
| -----------------------    | ---------------------------------------------   | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `image`                    | `postgres` image repository                     | `postgres`                                                 |
| `imageTag`                 | `postgres` image tag                            | `9.6.2`                                                    |
| `imagePullPolicy`          | Image pull policy                               | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent`    |
| `imagePullSecrets`         | Image pull secrets                              | `nil`                                                      |
| `postgresUser`             | Username of new user to create.                 | `postgres`                                                 |
| `postgresPassword`         | Password for the new user.                      | random 10 characters                                       |
| `usePasswordFile`          | Inject the password via file instead of env var | `false`                                                    |
| `postgresDatabase`         | Name for new database to create.                | `postgres`                                                 |
| `postgresInitdbArgs`       | Initdb Arguments                                | `nil`                                                      |
| `schedulerName`            | Name of an alternate scheduler                  | `nil`                                                      |
| `existingSecret`           | Use Existing secret for Admin password          | `nil`                                                      |
| `postgresConfig`           | Runtime Config Parameters                       | `nil`                                                      |
| `pgHbaConf`                | Content of pg\_hba.conf                         | `nil (do not create pg_hba.conf)`                          |
| `persistence.enabled`      | Use a PVC to persist data                       | `true`                                                     |
| `persistence.existingClaim`| Provide an existing PersistentVolumeClaim       | `nil`                                                      |
| `persistence.storageClass` | Storage class of backing PVC                    | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)                |
| `persistence.accessMode`   | Use volume as ReadOnly or ReadWrite             | `ReadWriteOnce`                                            |
| `persistence.annotations`  | Persistent Volume annotations                   | `{}`                                                       |
| `persistence.size`         | Size of data volume                             | `8Gi`                                                      |
| `persistence.subPath`      | Subdirectory of the volume to mount at          | `postgresql-db`                                            |
| `persistence.mountPath`    | Mount path of data volume                       | `/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata`                          |
| `persistence.resourcePolicy` | set resource-policy Helm annotation on PVC. Can be nil or "keep" | `nil`                                   |
| `resources`                | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits             | Memory: `256Mi`, CPU: `100m`                               |
| `metrics.enabled`          | Start a side-car prometheus exporter            | `false`                                                    |
| `metrics.image`            | Exporter image                                  | `wrouesnel/postgres_exporter`                              |
| `metrics.imageTag`         | Exporter image                                  | `v0.1.1`                                                   |
| `metrics.imagePullPolicy`  | Exporter image pull policy                      | `IfNotPresent`                                             |
| `metrics.resources`        | Exporter resource requests/limit                | Memory: `256Mi`, CPU: `100m`                               |
| `metrics.customMetrics`    | Additional custom metrics                       | `nil`                                                      |
| `service.externalIPs`      | External IPs to listen on                       | `[]`                                                       |
| `service.port`             | TCP port                                        | `5432`                                                     |
| `service.type`             | k8s service type exposing ports, e.g. `NodePort`| `ClusterIP`                                                |
| `service.nodePort`         | NodePort value if service.type is `NodePort`    | `nil`                                                      |
| `networkPolicy.enabled`    | Enable NetworkPolicy                            | `false`                                                    |
| `networkPolicy.allowExternal` | Don't require client label for connections   | `true`                                                     |
| `nodeSelector`             | Node labels for pod assignment                  | {}                                                         |
| `affinity`                 | Affinity settings for pod assignment            | {}                                                         |
| `tolerations`              | Toleration labels for pod assignment            | []                                                         |
| `terminationGracePeriodSeconds`     | Optional duration in seconds the pod needs to terminate gracefully | `nil`                          |
| `probes.liveness.initialDelay`      | Liveness probe initial delay           | `60`                                                       |
| `probes.liveness.timeoutSeconds`    | Liveness probe timeout seconds         | `5`                                                        |
| `probes.liveness.failureThreshold`  | Liveness probe failure threshold       | `6`                                                        |
| `probes.readiness.initialDelay`     | Readiness probe initial delay          | `5`                                                        |
| `probes.readiness.timeoutSeconds`   | Readiness probe timeout seconds        | `3`                                                        |
| `probes.readiness.failureThreshold` | Readiness probe failure threshold      | `5`                                                        |
| `podAnnotations`           | Annotations for the postgresql pod              | {}                                                         |
| `deploymentAnnotations`    | Annotations for the postgresql deployment       | {}                                                         |
| `extraEnv`                 | Any extra environment variables you would like to pass on to the pod | {}                                    |

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [postgres](http://github.com/docker-library/postgres). For more information please refer to the [postgres](http://github.com/docker-library/postgres) image documentation.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set postgresUser=my-user,postgresPassword=secretpassword,postgresDatabase=my-database \
    stable/postgresql
```

The above command creates a PostgreSQL user named `my-user` with password `secretpassword`. Additionally it creates a database named `my-database`.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/postgresql
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [postgres](https://github.com/docker-library/postgres) image stores the PostgreSQL data and configurations at the `/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata` path of the container.

The chart mounts a [Persistent Volume](http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/persistent-volumes/) at this location. The volume is created using dynamic volume provisioning. If the PersistentVolumeClaim should not be managed by the chart, define `persistence.existingClaim`.

Note: When using persistence ensure that you either provide a `postgresPassword` or use `existingSecret`, otherwise `helm update` will generate a new random password which is ignored by postgres. That will cause confusing behaviour especially if services depend on the secret

### Existing PersistentVolumeClaims

1. Create the PersistentVolume
1. Create the PersistentVolumeClaim
1. Install the chart
```bash
$ helm install --set persistence.existingClaim=PVC_NAME postgresql
```

The volume defaults to mount at a subdirectory of the volume instead of the volume root to avoid the volume's hidden directories from interfering with `initdb`.  If you are upgrading this chart from before version `0.4.0`, set `persistence.subPath` to `""`.

## Metrics
The chart optionally can start a metrics exporter for [prometheus](https://prometheus.io). The metrics endpoint (port 9187) is not exposed and it is expected that the metrics are collected from inside the k8s cluster using something similar as the described in the [example Prometheus scrape configuration](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/blob/master/documentation/examples/prometheus-kubernetes.yml).

The exporter allows to create custom metrics from additional SQL queries. See the Chart's `values.yaml` for an example and consult the [exporters documentation](https://github.com/wrouesnel/postgres_exporter#adding-new-metrics-via-a-config-file) for more details.

## NetworkPolicy

To enable network policy for PostgreSQL,
install [a networking plugin that implements the Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy spec](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/declare-network-policy#before-you-begin),
and set `networkPolicy.enabled` to `true`.

For Kubernetes v1.5 & v1.6, you must also turn on NetworkPolicy by setting
the DefaultDeny namespace annotation. Note: this will enforce policy for _all_ pods in the namespace:

    kubectl annotate namespace default "net.beta.kubernetes.io/network-policy={\"ingress\":{\"isolation\":\"DefaultDeny\"}}"

With NetworkPolicy enabled, traffic will be limited to just port 5432.

For more precise policy, set `networkPolicy.allowExternal=false`. This will
only allow pods with the generated client label to connect to PostgreSQL.
This label will be displayed in the output of a successful install.
